# HelsinkiMoocStandOut
Several years ago, I have finished "Object-Oriented programming with Java, part I and II" mooc of Helsinki University. This was one of my proudest achievements in IT world, and I will go through the assignments, and put the interesting ones (that "stand out") in this repository. In the process of solving the problems, I've been using previous lectures, as well as knowledge found in forums of this course.

1. Ski Jumping. Following is the shortened text of the assignment: "First, the simulator asks the user for the jumper names. If the user inputs an empty string (i.e. presses enter), we move to the jumping phase. In the jumping phase, the jumpers jump one by one in reverse order according to their points. The jumper with the less points always jumps first, then the ones with more points, till the person with the most points.
The total points of a jumper are calculated by adding up the points from their jumps. Jump points are decided in relation to the jump length (use a random integer between 60-120) and judge decision. Five judges vote for each jump (a vote is a random number between 10-20). The judge decision takes into consideration only three judge votes: the smallest and the greatest votes are not taken into account. For instance, if Mikael jumps 61 meters and the judge votes are 11, 12, 13, 14, and 15, the total points for the jump are 100.
There are as many rounds as the user wants. When the user wants to quit, we print the tournament results. The tournament results include the jumpers, the jumper total points, and the lengths of the jumps. The final results are sorted against the jumper total points, and the jumper who received the most points is the first."

2. Dungeon. "In the game, the player is in a dungeon full of vampires. The player has to destroy the vampires before his lamp runs out of battery and the vampires can suck his blood in the darkness. The player can see the vampires with a blinking of their lamp, after which they have to move blind before the following blinking. With one move, the player can walk as many steps as they want. The vampires move randomly in the game, and they take one step for each step the player takes. If the player and a vampire run into each other (even momentarily) the vampire is destroyed. If a vampire tries to step outside the board, or into a place already occupied by another vampire, the move is not executed. When all the vampires are destroyed, the game ends and it prints YOU WIN."

3. PhoneSearch. "Let's create an application to manage people phone numbers and addresses. Implement following functionalities: adding a phone number to the relative person, phone number search by person, name search by phone number, adding an address to the relative person, personal information search (search for a person's address and phone number), 6 removing a person's information, filtered search by keyword (retrieving a list which must be sorted by name in alphabetic order), the keyword can appear in the name or address."

4. Flexible Filtering Criteria. "With this exercise, we create a program to filter the lines of the books found on the Project Gutenberg pages. We want to have various different filtering criteria, and that it would be possible to filter according to different criteria combinations. The program structure should also allow for adding new criteria later on.".

5. SortedCards. "Cards have got a value and a suit. Card values are 2, 3, ..., 10, J, Q, K and A, and the suits are Spades, Hearts, Diamonds and Clubs. Value and suit are however shown as integers in the objects. Cards have also got a toString method, which is used to print the card value and suit in a "friendly way". Make your Cards class Comparable. Create the method for your hand, which sorts the cards in the hand. After being sorted, the cards are printed in order. Modify the class Hand so that it could be compared according to this criterion. Implement sorting the cards against different criteria".

6. Thing, Suitcase, and Container. "Create the classes Thing, Suitcase, and Container to use objects which contain other objects.".
